.TH VXFIRST 3  VisionX "A.P. Reeves" "VisionX USER\'S MANUAL"
.SH NAME
VXfirst, VXlast, VXfind, VXfindin, VXbfind
\- VisionX  element search functions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
VisXelem_t *VXfirst (lptr);
VisXelem_t *lptr;
.B
VisXelem_t *VXlast (lptr);
VisXelem_t *lptr;
.B
VisXelem_t *VXfind (lptr, vxtype);
VisXelem_t *list;
int vxtype;
.B
VisXelem_t *VXfindin (lptr, tlist);
VisXelem_t *list;
int tlist[];
.B
VisXelem_t *VXbfind (lptr, vxtype);
VisXelem_t *list;
int vxtype;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
VisionX represents information internally as a doubly linked list
of data elements. Each element contains a type descriptor,
forward and backward pointers to other elements, and data.
The VisionX file i/o functions read and write these lists.

The first element of a list
is always a dummy element that is required for consistency.
The element search functions
provide a set of programming tools for locating specific
list elements.

The element search functions contains the following:
.I VXfirst
\- move to first element of a list
.I VXlast
\- move to last element of a list
.I VXfind
\- find an element with a given type
.I VXfindin
\- find an element with one of a set of types
and
.I VXbfind
\- search backwards for an element with a given type.

.SH VXFIRST
.PP
.I VXfirst
is given an arbitrary pointer to a list element
.I lptr,
and returns a pointer to the first data element in the list
(not the dummy element).

.SH VXLAST
.PP
.I VXlast
is given an arbitrary pointer to a list element
.I lptr,
and returns a pointer to the last data element in the list.
If there are no elements in the list a pointer to the dummy element
is returned.

.SH VXFIND
.PP
.I VXfind
searches a list in a forward direction for a data element of type 
.I vxtype
starting at the element specified by 
.I lptr.
If such an element is found VXfind returns a pointer to that element.
Otherwise, VXfind returns a null element pointer (VXNIL).

.SH VXFINDIN
.PP
.I VXfindin
searches a list in a forward direction for a data element of one
of the types specified by
the zero terminated list of types specified by the argument
.I tlist.
If any element specified in  tlist is found, VXfindin returns a
pointer to that element.
Otherwise, VXfindin returns a null element pointer (VXNIL).

.SH VXBFIND
.PP
.I VXbfind
searches a list in a BACKWARDS direction for a data element of type 
.I vxtype
starting at the element specified by 
.I lptr.
If such an element is found VXbfind returns a pointer to that element.
Otherwise, VXfind returns a null element pointer (VXNIL).

.SH AUTHOR
Program and Documentation Copyright Anthony P. Reeves
