.TH VXINIT 3  VisionX "A.P. Reeves" "VisionX USER\'S MANUAL"
.SH NAME
VXinit, VXcpy, VXlnklist, VXdellist \- VisionX  list manipulation functions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
VisXelem_t *VXinit ();
.B
VisXelem_t *VXcpy (list);
VisXelem_t *list;
.B
void VXlnklist (lista, listb);
VisXelem_t *lista, *listb;
.B
void VXdellist (list);
VisXelem_t *list;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
VisionX represents information internally as a doubly linked list
of data elements. Each element contains a type descriptor,
forward and backward pointers to other elements, and data.
The VisionX file i/o functions read and write these lists.

The first element of a list
is always a dummy element that is required for consistency.
The list manipulation functions
provide a set of programming tools for performing operations on whole
list structures.

The list manipulation toolkit contains the following functions:
.I VXinit
\- creates an empty list structure,
.I
VXcpy \- make a copy of a list
.I VXlnklist
\- link a list into another list
and
.I VXdellist
\- delete a complete list.

.SH VXINIT
.PP
.I VXinit
creates an empty list structure to which elements and lists may be
added.
A dummy data element is created which is necessary for
consistent list operations; VXinit returns a pointer to this element.
The dummy element is not copied to a  file when the list is written;
it is deleted when the list is deleted.

.SH VXCPY
.PP
.I VXcpy
makes a copy of a list starting at the element pointed at by the argument
.I list
and includes all the following elements.
VXcpy automatically creates the required first dummy element and
returns a pointer to the copied list.

.SH VXLNKLIST
.PP
.I VXlnklist
Moves the whole of the list to which argument
.I listb
points to and inserts it after the element pointed to by argument
.I lista.
(listb does not have to point to the start of its list).
All that remains of the list pointed to by  listb is the dummy element.
Note, adding  one list to the end of another list can be achieved
with VXlnklist(VXlast(lista), listb).

.SH VXDELLIST
.PP
.I VXdellist
deletes all elements of the argument 
.I list
starting at the element 
.I list
to the end of the list.
Note, VXdellist will delete the dummy element if 
.I list
points to the dummy element; however, VXdellist(VXfirst(list)),
will delete all elements of a list except the dummy element.


.SH AUTHOR
Program and Documentation Copyright Anthony P. Reeves
