.TH VXPACK 3  VisionX "A.P. Reeves" "VisionX USER\'S MANUAL"
.SH NAME
VXpack, VXupack, VXpklist, VXupklist \- VisionX  element packing 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B 
void VXpack (int pmode);
.B
void VXupack (int umode);
.B
void VXpklist (VisXelem_t *list);
.B
void VXupklist (VisXelem_t *list);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The VisionX file system has the capability to store sets of elements
in a single "packed" element. The advantage of this capability is file
i/o performance.
A large number of elements may be read with a single system read.
By default, any packed element will be unpacked by the read functions
VXread and VXreadframe which makes packing transparent to the
user (or programmer).

Data packing is especially useful for graphics data files that involve
a very large number of small elements.
.I VXpack
and
.I VXupack
allow the global strategies for packing and unpacking to be set.

VXupack(0) sets the default mode of completely unpacking all packed 
elements. VXupack(1) sets a fast strategy that does not perform
mallocs for each unpacked element. The down side of this capability
is that memory assigned to elements can no longer be deallocated when
an element is deleted. This mode offers performance enhancement
for may graphics applications but will likely cause memory problems
for applications involving very large files. Once this mode has been
set, memory deallocation cannot be reestablished by setting VXupack
to a different mode. VXupack(2) inhibits automatic unpacking of
packed elements (packed elements may be explicitly unpacked with 
VXupklist()).

VXpack(0) diasables automatic packing which is the default.
VXpack(1) sets automatic packing for the functions VXwrite() and
VXwriteframe(). In this mode, the whole list will be packed into
a single packed element. Frame start and frame end elements are not packed
so that frame i/o can still be performed; however, the elements
between frame elements wil be packed. Note, after a call to VXwrite
or VXwriteframe in this mode the list passed to these functions will
be in packed form as if VXpklist() had been called on it.

The functions
.I VXupklist()
and 
.I VXpklist()
permit the explicit packing and unpacking of lists.
VXpklist() will pack a list according to the rules specified for
VXpack(1). VXupklist() will unpack a packed element in a list.

.SH AUTHOR
Program and Documentation Copyright Anthony P. Reeves
