.TH VXOPEN 3  VisionX "A.P. Reeves" "VisionX USER\'S MANUAL"
.SH NAME
VXread, VXreadframe, VXwrite, VXwriteframe, VXfupdate  \- VisionX  File manipulation functions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
VisXelem_t *VXread(vfile)
VisXfile_t *vfile;
.B
VisXelem_t *VXreadframe(vfile)
VisXfile_t *vfile;
.B
void VXwrite (vfile, vlist)
VisXfile_t * vfile;
VisXelem_t * vlist;
.B
void VXwriteframe (vfile, vlist)
VisXfile_t * vfile;
VisXelem_t * vlist;
.B
void VXfupdate(ofile, ifile)
VisXfile_t * ifile;
VisXfile_t * ofile;


.SH DESCRIPTION
.I 
VXread
reads the data from a VisionX file that has been opened with
with VXopen and creates an initialized  doubly linked list of the read
data elements. VXread returns a pointer to this list.
If no data is found an empty initialized list is returned
.PP
.I
VXreadframe
is similar to VXread except that if there are frame markers
in the file (VX_FRAME and VX_EFRAME) only the part of the
file that starts with VX_FRAME the start-frame marker and
ends with the end-frame marker VX_EFRAME will be read.
Subsequent calls to VXreadframe will  read subsequent frames.
If no frame is found (i.e., at the end of the file) then 
a null pointer is returned.
.PP
.I 
VXwrite
writes a VisionX data list to a file opened for writing with VXopen.
.PP
.I 
VXwriteframe
writes a VisionX data list to a file opened for writing with VXopen
and is suitable for writing multiframe images. It does not add
the frame markers; this is responsibility of the programmer preparing
the data list.
.PP
.I
VXfupdate
updates the global variable list associated with the output file
.I ofile
with any new information that has been read in from the input
file
.I ifile. 
In general, to guarantee correct maintenance of file information
this function should be called to update output files
after any call to VXreadframe. See any of the frame i/o template
programs for examples of its usage.
.SH SEE ALSO
VXopen(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Program and Documentation Copyright Anthony P. Reeves
